# Olympic-gymnasts-Analysis

This is an analysis about the age differences for male and female Olympic gymnasts and showing the age distribution changed over the years using R.

Here we are going to analyze the olympic_gymnasts dataset from Olympics dataset. In the dataset, it includes 16 variables and 25528 objects for the games from 1896 to 2016. The column variables in the data are id, name, sex, age, height, weigh, team, games, year, season, city , sport, event, medal, medalist. For the posted question, we will use some variables in the data to show the differences and distribution. So we pick age, sex, medalist for the first part of the question, and add year for the second part for the question. Based on the dataset, we can see that sex includes M for male and F for female, age is from 10 to 49, medalist is true for getting a medal and false for without having a medal, year is from 1896 to 2016.

From the first plot, we can see that the female violins in orange have different wide ranges, the one “did not medal” is wider than “medaled” around the same age range from 15 to 20. Above 30, “did not medal” is more narrow than “medaled”. For male, their plots look similar to female’s, except their maximum density range is around age 25. From the plot, we can see there’s no significant differences in age distribution for both sex in comparing the “medaled” with “did not medal”. From the second plot, based on continuing years, we can see there’s no big differences in age for “medaled” and “did not medal”. It seems that they may have different average ages in some years. For example, the first box in the plot, the average age in “did not medal” is a bit younger than “medaled”. But that’s just a negligible difference. In summary, based on the above analysis, there’s no big age differences for male and female Olympic gymnasts who medaled or not.
